---
title:  "[HPE] Human Pose Estimation References"
excerpt: "References of Human Pose Estimation Posting Series"
categories:
  - AI
  - Computer Vision
tags:
  - Deep Learning
  - Computer Vision
  - Human Pose Estimation
last_modified_at: 2023-02-14
teaser: "/assets/images/teaser/teaser_hpe.jpg"
---

{% include inserted_box.html text="해당 포스트는 HPE Series의 모든 레퍼런스를 모아놓았습니다. (**Last Update: 2023.02.16.**)" %}

# 논문

## HPE

<span style="background-color: #C5D3F6">[DeepPose(2014)]</span> Toshev, Alexander, and Christian Szegedy. "Deeppose: Human pose estimation via deep neural networks." *Proceedings of the IEEE conference on computer vision and pattern recognition*. 2014.

<span style="background-color: #C5D3F6">[CPM(2016)]</span> Wei, Shih-En, et al. "Convolutional pose machines." *Proceedings of the IEEE conference on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition*. 2016.

<span style="background-color: #C5D3F6">[DeepCut(2016)]</span> Insafutdinov, Eldar, et al. "Deepercut: A deeper, stronger, and faster multi-person pose estimation model." *Computer Vision–ECCV 2016: 14th European Conference, Amsterdam, The Netherlands, October 11-14, 2016, Proceedings, Part VI 14*
. Springer International Publishing, 2016.

<span style="background-color: #C5D3F6">[StackedHourglass(2016)]</span> Newell, Alejandro, Kaiyu Yang, and Jia Deng. "Stacked hourglass networks for human pose estimation." *Computer Vision–ECCV 2016: 14th European Conference, Amsterdam, The Netherlands, October 11-14, 2016, Proceedings, Part VIII 14*. Springer International Publishing, 2016.

<span style="background-color: #C5D3F6">[CMU-Pose(2017)]</span> Cao, Zhe, et al. "Realtime multi-person 2d pose estimation using part affinity fields." *Proceedings of the IEEE conference on computer vision and pattern recognition*. 2017.

<span style="background-color: #C5D3F6">[AssociatedEmbedding(2017)]</span> Newell, Alejandro, Zhiao Huang, and Jia Deng. "Associative embedding: End-to-end learning for joint detection and grouping." *Advances in neural information processing systems* 30 (2017).

<span style="background-color: #C5D3F6">[RMPE(2017)]</span> Fang, Hao-Shu, et al. "Rmpe: Regional multi-person pose estimation." *Proceedings of the IEEE international conference on computer vision*. 2017.

<span style="background-color: #C5D3F6">[MaskR-CNN(2017)]</span> He, Kaiming, et al. "Mask r-cnn." *Proceedings of the IEEE international conference on computer vision*. 2017.

<span style="background-color: #C5D3F6">[CPN(2018)]</span> Chen, Yilun, et al. "Cascaded pyramid network for multi-person pose estimation." *Proceedings of the IEEE conference on computer vision and pattern recognition*. 2018.

<span style="background-color: #C5D3F6">[PersonLab(2018)]</span> Papandreou, George, et al. "Personlab: Person pose estimation and instance segmentation with a bottom-up, part-based, geometric embedding model." *Proceedings of the European conference on computer vision (ECCV)*. 2018.

<span style="background-color: #C5D3F6">[SimpleBaseline(2018)]</span> Xiao, Bin, Haiping Wu, and Yichen Wei. "Simple baselines for human pose estimation and tracking." *Proceedings of the European conference on computer vision (ECCV)*. 2018.

<span style="background-color: #C5D3F6">[OpenPose(2019)]</span> Cao, Zhe, et al. "OpenPose: Realtime Multi-Person 2D Pose Estimation Using Part Affinity Fields." *IEEE Transactions on Pattern Analysis and Machine Intelligence* 43.1 (2019): 172-186.

<span style="background-color: #C5D3F6">[PifPaf(2019)]</span> Kreiss, Sven, Lorenzo Bertoni, and Alexandre Alahi. "Pifpaf: Composite fields for human pose estimation." *Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF conference on computer vision and pattern recognition*. 2019.

<span style="background-color: #C5D3F6">[SPM(2019)]</span> Nie, Xuecheng, et al. "Single-stage multi-person pose machines." *Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF international conference on computer vision*. 2019.

<span style="background-color: #C5D3F6">[HRNet(2019)]</span> Sun, Ke, et al. "Deep high-resolution representation learning for human pose estimation." *Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF conference on computer vision and pattern recognition*. 2019.

<span style="background-color: #C5D3F6">[DirectPose(2019)]</span> Tian, Zhi, Hao Chen, and Chunhua Shen. "Directpose: Direct end-to-end multi-person pose estimation." *arXiv preprint arXiv:1911.07451* (2019).

<span style="background-color: #C5D3F6">[HigherHRNet(2020)]</span> Cheng, Bowen, et al. "Higherhrnet: Scale-aware representation learning for bottom-up human pose estimation." *Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF conference on computer vision and pattern recognition*. 2020.

<span style="background-color: #C5D3F6">[survey2020(1)]</span> Munea, Tewodros Legesse, et al. "The progress of human pose estimation: A survey and taxonomy of models applied in 2D human pose estimation." *IEEE Access* 8 (2020): 133330-133348.

<span style="background-color: #C5D3F6">[Point-setAnchors(2020)]</span> Wei, Fangyun, et al. "Point-set anchors for object detection, instance segmentation and pose estimation." *Computer Vision–ECCV 2020: 16th European Conference, Glasgow, UK, August 23–28, 2020, Proceedings, Part X 16*. Springer International Publishing, 2020.

<span style="background-color: #C5D3F6">[PRTR(2021)]</span> Li, Ke, et al. "Pose recognition with cascade transformers." *Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition*. 2021.

<span style="background-color: #C5D3F6">[TFPose(2021)]</span> Mao, Weian, et al. "Tfpose: Direct human pose estimation with transformers." *arXiv preprint arXiv:2103.15320* (2021).

<span style="background-color: #C5D3F6">[PRTR(2021)]</span> Li, Ke, et al. "Pose recognition with cascade transformers." *Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition*. 2021.

<span style="background-color: #C5D3F6">[InsPose(2021)]</span> Shi, Dahu, et al. "Inspose: instance-aware networks for single-stage multi-person pose estimation." *Proceedings of the 29th ACM International Conference on Multimedia*. 2021.

<span style="background-color: #C5D3F6">[FCPose(2021)]</span> Mao, Weian, et al. "Fcpose: Fully convolutional multi-person pose estimation with dynamic instance-aware convolutions." *Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition*. 2021.

<span style="background-color: #C5D3F6">[PoseDet(2021)]</span> Tian, Chenyu, et al. "Posedet: fast multi-person pose estimation using pose embedding." *2021 16th IEEE International Conference on Automatic Face and Gesture Recognition (FG 2021)*. IEEE, 2021.

<span style="background-color: #C5D3F6">[PETR(2022)]</span> Shi, Dahu, et al. "End-to-end multi-person pose estimation with transformers." *Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition*. 2022.

<span style="background-color: #C5D3F6">[survey(2022)]</span> Lan, Gongjin, et al. "Vision-Based Human Pose Estimation via Deep Learning: A Survey." *IEEE Transactions on Human-Machine Systems* (2022).

<span style="background-color: #C5D3F6">[AdaptivePose(2022)]</span> Xiao, Yabo, et al. "Adaptivepose: Human parts as adaptive points." *Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence*. Vol. 36. No. 3. 2022.

## Others

<span style="background-color: #C5D3F6">[CenterNet(2015)]</span> Tompson, Jonathan, et al. "Efficient object localization using convolutional networks." *Proceedings of the IEEE conference on computer vision and pattern recognition*. 2015.

<span style="background-color: #C5D3F6">[CenterNet(2019)]</span> Zhou, Xingyi, Dequan Wang, and Philipp Krähenbühl. "Objects as points." *arXiv preprint arXiv:1904.07850* (2019).

- - -

# Webpage

<span style="background-color: #C5D3F6">[v7labs-HPE]</span> [A Comprehensive Guide to Human Pose Estimation](https://www.v7labs.com/blog/human-pose-estimation-guide)